# TXHFMap-A-Spatiotemporal-Analysis-of-Heart-Failure-Hospitalization-Rate
More than 6 million American people (mostly from the older population) have heart failures (HF), and this number keeps increasing each year. I did a spatio-temporal analysis to identify the high-risk areas and contributing factors to HF to gain more insights into the HF hospitalization problems in Texas.

More than 6 million American people (mostly from the older population) have heart failures (HF), and this number keeps increasing each year. On average, we see around 870 thousand new cases of HF each year. 1 The current estimated cost for managing HF is 30 billion dollars. With this rate, HF is expected to reach at least a 3% prevalence with a projected cost of $53 billion by 2030. 3  In Texas, HF is the number 1 cause of death for adults over 40 years old. 2  According to the American Health Ranking by United Foundation, Texas is placed at number 15 for heart disease among all the states in the U.S.9 Therefore, preventing HF hospitalizations can help to reduce both the morbidity & mortality rates due to heart disease in the state of Texas and save a large number of medical costs for local hospitals (by avoiding federal penalties for high readmission rates13). 
However, early prevention of HF hospitalization is not an easy task. A good solution targeting HF should be community-based since they prove to be effective in targeting a wide range of high-risk populations. 5 In order to develop an effective management plan, The Texas Health Department and local hospitals/organizations need to understand deeply the core characteristic of this disease throughout Texas geographic and over time. Since Texas is a large state, the distribution of demographics across the states will greatly vary. Based on the number in 2018, Texas has 10 counties in the U.S. with the largest shares of Hispanic residents. This makes Texas become the state with the 2nd largest Hispanic population in the whole nation. 11 In addition, Texas is also in top ten states with largest African American population according to the U.S. Census 2010.12  A large proportion of the Hispanic and African American populations in Texas have social, geographical, economic, or other risk factors that contribute to the increased risk for HF. Among those factors, diabetes, obesity, and physical inactivity are among the highest risk factors for heart disease according to a report from the American Heart Association.10 Hence, from the previous facts and my exploratory analysis in this project, I find that there is an indication of spatial variation and an increasing trend of HF hospitalizations in Texas over the years.  Therefore, to gain more insights into the HF hospitalization problems in Texas, I did a spatio-temporal analysis to identify the high-risk areas and contributing factors to HF.

